Rishank Ranj an Singh Email: rishank @iitk.ac.in | xavis20132013@gmail.com
Department of Civil Engineering Contact: +91-8827544290 | +91-6265854497
Educational Qualifications
Year Degree/Certificate Institute Performance
BTech.- MTech. Dual ‘ : CPI : UG- 7.65/10
a0 Tb Russel (Specialization in Structural Engineering) Indian Instlinte af Tectmology, Kempur PG- 9.51/10
2016 Grade 12'* (CBSE) Christ Church Boys’ Senior Sec. School, Jabalpur 92.2%
2014 Grade 10" (CBSE) Christ Church Boys’ Senior Sec. School, Jabalpur 9 .6/10.0
Scholastic Achievements
e Received A* grade for exceptional performance in the course Earthquake Analysis and Design of Structures”
e Secured All India Rank 6043 in JEE Advanced among the 0.2 million shortlisted candidates
e Qualified for second level and received Gold Medal in 2013 for International Mathematics Olympiad and National Science Olympiad
e _Cleared the National Defence Academy (NDA) written exam and reached Conference round in Service Selection Board (SSB).
Academic Projects and Workshops
Brain and Cognitive Society Workshop (April 20)
e To create Deep Learning Models using Tensor Flow for linear regression and image classification.
e To model the human brain based on Atkinson-Shiffrin's Multi-Store Model of Memory and verify its properties.
e To create a visual search experiment and test the response of human subjects to the experiment.
e Performed Image Classification, using Convolution Neural Networks, Dense Neural Network and Transfer Learning.
e Implemented Reinforcement Learning to find path for a frozen lake problem.
e
e
e
Objective
Approach Verified the Serial Position Effect which is the tendency of a person to recall first and last items in a series.
Designed a model on Feature Integration Theory in which features are identified before objects.
Created an experiment in PsyToolkit based on “Feature Analysis in Early Vision Evidence From Search Asymmetries”
Observed the best accuracy in Transfer Learning for 0.001 learning rate at 70% followed by CNN at 60%
e Average reaction time to identify target increased as number of items increased and validity of the experiment was 99% .
Behaviour _of Inverted Pendulum (Undergraduate Course Project, Aug’19 — Apr’20, Guide: Prof. S. Mukhopadhyay)
e To develop FEM programs for solving truss displacement and reactions at nodes.
Results
ODIecune e To develop an understanding of G.W. Housner’s paper ‘Behaviour of Inverted Pendulum’ for rigid body rocking.
e Solved for an axially loaded bar having one element of n nodes and n elements having two nodes using MATLAB
Approach e Simulated the model for free, sinusoidal and cosinusoidal vibrations in MATLAB
e Performed the sensitivity analysis upon results obtained by changing the parameters of the model
Results Verified the results using both analytical and numerical approach and created an efficient code using ode45 solver.
The model was insensitive at the start but became sensitive to about 0.7%-1.1% after few impacts.
Other Course Projects:
e Created an industry oriented Topological map with exhaustive 3-D information which can assist in any project (CE332)
e Collaborated with a team of six members to design a 3-D prototype of a stamping machine using FUSION360 (TA202)
e Designed a truss bridge using SAP2000 and designed floors of a shopping centre using AutoCAD. (Science and Technology Council)
Master Thesis (Aug’20 Present)
Rocking Motion of Rigid and Flexible Bodies (Thesis Supervisor: Prof. S. Mukhopadhyay, CE, IIT Kanpur)
e Computational study of rocking motion which models the oscillation and stability criteria of a structure rocking over its base.
e _ Relaxation of constraints to incorporate uplifting, sliding, ground flexibility to create a general rocking model.
e Created a Non-Linear SDOF model based on previous models by finding an equivalent stiffness and damping functions of the system.
e Aims to reduce the computational cost by using regression on data obtained from Winkler, Concentrated Spring and Flexible models.
Positions of Responsibility
DESCON Hobby e Part of the team which organised the workshop for undergraduate students.
Group Secretary e Conducted workshops on SAP2000 and AutoCAD in place of the earlier ice cream stick designing.
(July 17 -May’18) e _ High overall participation in the DESCON events in Takneek’ 17 considering a newer format.
Extra-Curricular Activities
e Represented the Institute Dance Team and were 2" runner-up in Group Dance at “ANT ARAGNI 2017”
e __ Performed at the Inter Hostel Cultural Competition “GALAXY 18” and were the overall winner of Dance Trophy
e Designed and constructed a bridge using ice-cream sticks in Takneek 2016 and secured first position.
e Designed a working model of Rube Goldberg’s Machine which performed a simple task in an indirect way.
Group Dance
Technical
e ~—_- Fourth position.in STRATAZENITH event organized by Indian Game Theory Society DTU, in Techkriti’18.
Miscellaneous | e French Level-I certified under Foreign Language Program, IIT Kanpur.
e __Teaching Assistant for the Strength of Material, responsible for creating solutions and grading homework and quizzes.
Technical Skills
e §«©Software and Utilities: StaadPro, SAP2000, Autodesk Fusion 360, AutoCAD lI Programming- C, C++, Python, MATLAB,
Relevant Courses
Data Structures and Algorithm - Completed an introductory course on Data Structures and Algorithm organised by Demux Academy.
Coursera MOOCs e —_ Introduction to Electronics, Microeconomics, Computational
e Data Science in Python by University of Michigan and Numerical Methods, Optimization Methods.
e Machine Learning with Python by IBM. e Mathematics: Linear Algebra, ODE, PDE, Probability and
e Deep Learning & Neural Networks with Keras by IBM. Statistics, Stochastic Processes.
e Sequence Models by Deep Learning.ai e Intro to SQL, Pandas, Data Visualization (Seaborn, Matplotlib)

