VANI CHAT UR VEDI Phone: 8225845714
Earth Sciences | Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur Email: vanichatur vedi@ gmail.com
ACADEMIC DETAILS
Year Degree Institute Performance
2021 Master of Science (MS) Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur 8.0/10
2016-20 Bachelor of Science (BS) Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur 7.24/10.0
2015 Class XII (CBSE) Rishi Galav Public School, Gwalior 90.2%
2013 Class X (CBSE) Rishi Galav Public school, Gwalior 10C.GP.A
RESEARCH PROJECTS
Device for chromium removal from contaminated water | (Mentor: Dr. Indra S. Sen, ITT Kanpur) (Aug’1S-Nov’18)
e Proposed a water purifying device for removing toxic chromium from below poverty line areas of Kanpur-Unnao.
e Researched the resin that can be used as purifier with pH of water and adsorption period of around 2-10 minutes of chromium.
e Analyzed the total material and recovery cost of the device at the estimated production cost of Rs. 2 per litre of potable water.
e Around 1500 families will be benefitted from easily operatable fill and shake device aided with five times recyclability.
Isotope mixing model | (Mentor: Dr. Indra S. Sen, IIT Kanpur) (Dec’17)
e To analyze the fraction of hydrological components in Greenland ice sheet melt discharge using conservative geochemical tracers.
e Used singular value decomposition method on matlab to evaluate fractions of snow, glacial and delayed flow in the output flow.
e Results are useful in quantifying glacial melt during summer season and can be applied in effective water resource management.
TECHNICAL PROJECTS
Mineral Exploration Geophysical Field at Babina, Jhansi | (ES418 — Earth Sciences department) (Nov’19— Dec’19)
Awarded A* for exceptional performance and team work in field.
e In a group of four performed geophysical data acquisition via gravimeter, magnetometer to map subsurface geological features.
e Applied data correction technique to calculate gravity and magnetic anomaly in MS Excel and plotted contour map on surfer.
Mexican wave rotating model | (TA201 — Material Sc. & Engineering Department) (Oct’17 — Nov’17)
e Designed mechanical device a replica of famous football Mexican wave using AUTODESK FUSION.
e Using the standard metallurgical process of brazing, welding created and shaped the model base parts including rotator, shaft.
e Awarded by Special Mention Certificate for best creative model in the batch of 400 students.
POSITIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY
Secretary (Society of Exploration Geophysicists, Earth Sciences - IIT Kanpur) Apr’18- Present
Leadership | e Established Geophysics society along with 5 core team members in Earth sciences department at IIT Kanpur.
e Jointly co-organized creative and technical events with Earth science society.
Initiatives e Invited Schlumberger at Earth Sciences department to familiarize students with core working of industry.
e Organized case study, tech talks and poster presentation for Earth Sciences students on Schlumberger day.
Impact e Society has successfully completed two years in the department with having increase in number of participations.
e Successful in increasing geophysics alumni connection with society for delivering cut above outcomes.
Department Under graduate Committee (DUGC) Student nominee (IIT Kanpur) Jul’16 —Apr’17
e Introduced constructive changes in department academic template.
e Ensured smooth functioning of Earth Science Society by adequate participation of students.
e Put forward any issues faced by UG students before DUGC and counseled the academically deficit students.
INDUSTRIAL EXPOSURE
e Participated in departmental field’18 to Hindustan copper limited, Ghatshila to get exposure of copper mine and copper plant.
e Visited Surda mine and learnt various metallurgical processes and operational ethics.
KEY COURSES & TECHNICAL SKILLS
e Programming Languages: C,C++, HTML, CSS | Operating Systems: Windows, Linux
e Softwares: Matlab, QGIS, Autodesk Fusion, MS Excel, Surfer
e Courses: Linear Algebra | Probability and Statistics! Fundamental of computing IIntroduction to electronics | Statistical Mechanics
ACHIEVEMENTS & EXTRA-CURRICULARS
¢ Certified by CSIR-CDRI, Lucknow for penning down thoughtful articles on space exploration.(April’18-May’18)
Scholastic e Secured 6850 JEE ADVANCE 2016 among 1.55 lakh aspirants.
Sports & e Awarded by certificate of merit for securing second position in volleyball PE intramural in the year 2016.
Cultural ¢ Qualified first year vocal examination of MADHAV SANGEET MAHAVIDHYALAYA, Gwalior in2012.
Extra- e Volunteered at NGO Shiksha Sopan to teach 6" standard students basic English grammar in the year 2017.
Curriculars
e Counseled children of NGO to live motivated and disciplined life.

